{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww7020\viewh15220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 PLEASE FOLLOW ALONG WITH ME.. (Python 3.X)\
* Download 1-Thaiwseg folder using browser by visiting the link:\
* First, goto your desktop and make a folder named: \'93
\b testthaiwseg\'94
\b0  \
* Open Terminal and goto Desktop by typing (assuming you are at Home directory):\
  
\b cd Desktop
\b0 \
* Goto the new folder that you made a while ago\
  
\b cd testthaiwseg
\b0 \
* Great! Now it is time to install the virtual environment to that folder(We do this because MacOS can interfere with many libraries)\
To do this type: \
  
\b virtualenv venv
\b0 \
* After it is installed, type the following command to get in the folder:\
  
\b cd venv\
* 
\b0 Copy all the down content from \'93Download 1-Thaiwseg\'94 in to venv folder \
* Now it\'92s time to activate it! Type:\
  
\b source bin/activate
\b0 \
* Excellent Job! Now it\'92s time to install all dependent packages. On the same terminal as before type the following commands in this order:\
1)
\b  pip install deepcut\

\b0 2)
\b  pip install tensorflow\

\b0 3)
\b  pip install fuzzywuzzy\

\b0 4)
\b  pip install docker\

\b0 5)
\b  pip install mtranslate\

\b0 6)
\b  pip install pythainlp\

\b0 \
Everything installed? Awesome! (If not please send me an email with the issue)\
\
* Now begins the fun part. Let\'92s run it! On the same terminal window type:\
  
\b python3 Real_GUI.py
\b0 \
* Give it sometime to load. Have some coffee ( Tensorflow loading takes time but once its loaded it is fast. Really!)\
* On the search box type word/sentence or even the whole Harry Potter book (Don\'92t it will take lots of time and your PC will heat up!) and press the button.\
* All Different types of translations are displayed in a nice little UI!\
* Just close the window to quit from the program :)\
\
##### DID YOU KNOW? #####\
- Group T10 was the only group who made both Word segmentation and POS tagging\
- Need a perfect word segmenter? use our program! It is much better than any dictionary based method!\
- It gives you both Deepcut and PythaiNLP ( The best in the biz ) so you can choose any method that you want! How cool is that? \
#########################\
}